Authors
-------

The original CVSup code was written in Modula-3 by

	John Polstra <jdp@polstra.com>

Csup is a rewrite of CVSup in C.  It has been mostly written by

	Maxime Henrion <mux@FreeBSD.org>

A few contributors have helped him in his task and they are listed
here in alphabetical order:

	Olivier Houchard <cognet@FreeBSD.org>
	Ulf Lilleengen <lulf@kerneled.org>
	Christoph Mathys <cmathys@bluewin.ch>	(Google SoC Project)
	Etienne Vidal <etienne.vidal@gmail.com>

Last but not least, this project would have never been possible
without the generous donations he received from various people.
Here they are, in alphabetical order:

	Eric Anholt
	Garance A Drosehn
	Paul Gregg
	Marcel Moolenaar
	Devon O'Dell
	Mike Tancsa
	Mikko Tyolajarvi

Building & Installing
---------------------

First, in order to build csup, you will need a few dependencies:
  - GNU make
  - flex >= 2.5.19
  - The OpenSSL crypto lib and associated openssl/md5.h header
  - The zlib library and associated zlib.h header

Csup should build and run fine under any *BSD OS (that includes
FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD and DragonFlyBSD), as well as Linux and
Darwin.  It has also been tested successfully on a wide range of
architectures: x86, amd64, sparc64, alpha, ia64, arm and powerpc.
If you have a problem building from source, drop me a mail!

As usual, to build the source code, just run "make".  If you're
running a BSD flavoured system, you will most likely need to run
"gmake" instead, to invoke the GNU make variant instead of the
system one.  If your system ships with a flex version that is not
recent enough, you will need to change the FLEX make variable on
the command line to point at another binary, or the build will fail.

For example, to build csup under FreeBSD, you will need to install
the textproc/flex port as well as the devel/gmake one and use this
command line:

	gmake FLEX=/usr/local/bin/flex

However, if you are running FreeBSD, remember that csup is shipped
in the base system in a way that doesn't require external dependencies,
so you should have no reason to build from these sources unless you
intend to do some development work.  You are likely to need a similar
command line if you're trying to build csup from source on another
BSD-like system though.

Once the build is done, just can run "make install" (or alternatively,
"gmake install") to install the csup binary, the cpasswd script and
their respective manual pages.

Be warned however that if the packaging system of your OS knows
about csup, it is preferable to install it from there rather than
by hand, so that it can be properly deinstalled afterwards.

About
-----

CVSup is a software for distributing and updating collections of
files accross a network.  It can efficiently and accurately mirror
all types of files, including sources, binaries, hard links, symbolic
links, and even device nodes.  In addition to being a great
general-purpose mirroring tool, CVSup includes special features and
optimizations specifically tailored to CVS repositories.

CVSup is being used as the preferred way to update sources within
the FreeBSD, NetBSD and OpenBSD projects, and by many more projects
such as PostgreSQL.

This is a rewrite of CVSup in the C language.  This project was
started for pragmatic reasons rather than religious ones: the
Modula-3 runtime environment has not been ported to all the
achitectures supported by the various *BSD projects, plus it was
increasingly difficult to find people for maintaining the code.

Status
------

The csup project is now officially completed.  It has proven to be
a solid CVSup replacement for client-only functionality, and is now
being shipped along with the FreeBSD operating system, since FreeBSD
6.2-RELEASE.

It is still being maintained externally as well, mostly for the
sake of other operating systems.  The code can be found in this
Mercurial repository:

	https://bitbucket.org/mux/csup
